BouncyBot v5.1.0
Targeted implementation and verification report
25 September 2026

DELIVERY AND SCOPE

All eleven confirmed defect groups from the read-only review of the final
5.0.0 source are addressed, together with the requested status-row lock-button
height correction. This is a source release with Windows build scripts, not a
prebuilt or target-platform-qualified Windows executable.

Baseline: reviewed final 5.0.0, associated with upstream commit
07cdeb003efed701fa09cb91f87ee798b7d720b7.
Baseline ZIP SHA-256:
cd6335c14ff675f1476fc4ba9bfcf53a96805f6e2306ff112932ee7e0c86a91f
The implementation began with all 407 baseline files checked against the saved
source manifest. The separate review baseline was not edited.

Runtime edits are limited to five existing modules:
  app/controller.py
  app/gui.py
  app/ib_adapter.py
  app/storage.py
  app/strategy.py

Other changes are regression tests, current-version assertions, documentation,
version/build labels and one mutation-probe target updated to the corrected
commission condition. No dependency ranges, five-stage strategy thresholds,
saved ATR seed policy or standard GIL-enabled CPython 3.14.x requirement changed.
No live IBKR connection, broker order or user trading database was used or changed.

FIXES AND FOCUSED REGRESSION COVERAGE

F01 - Established broker-session identity
  Capture the successful session's endpoint/client/profile separately from
  editable settings. Block mismatched starts and submissions. Connect reapplies
  changed idle settings through reconnection; selecting a different profile no
  longer relabels an existing session. The existing automatic reconnect path can
  also establish the current draft after a disconnect.
  Tests: test_v510_gui_commands.py (shared with F05).

F02 - Exact execution ownership during recovery
  Reject conflicting account, contract, side or permanent identity. Numeric
  orderId alone is insufficient ownership proof. Preserve compatible legacy
  exact-reference recovery and older retry fills only when the exact permanent
  identity is persisted for that cycle/reference.
  Tests: test_v510_recovery_commissions.py (shared with F11), plus a corrected
  unsafe orderId-only expectation and a matching permanent-ID positive control.

F03 - Timeout checkpoint and waiting-entry recovery
  Re-read and preserve an existing committed cycle inside the checkpoint
  transaction instead of overwriting it from an older GUI snapshot. The saved
  marker describes the preserved row. A waiting-entry cycle with an exact-known
  working order requires reconciliation. Normal worker checkpoints are retained.
  Tests: test_v510_checkpoint.py, 12 cases.

F04 - Manual market-close cancellation sequencing
  Keep supervising a pending/failed BUY cancellation before sizing the SELL.
  Continue an explicit close after confirmed partial final/protective SELL
  cancellation using reconciled remaining quantity. Check known eligibility
  before cancelling a working exit, and recheck after cancellation. Preserve
  manual review for unknown outcomes or inconsistent quantities. Restart and
  old-order-full-fill cases do not submit a duplicate replacement.
  Tests: test_v510_manual_close.py, 26 cases.

F05 - Manual-handling confirmation identity
  Bind acknowledgement to the cycle and broker-relevant state actually reviewed.
  Recheck after the modal dialog and in the worker. Harmless price-only updates
  do not invalidate the acknowledgement.
  Tests: test_v510_gui_commands.py, 19 cases across F01/F05.

F06 - Final BUY preflight
  Re-evaluate enabled time-sensitive quote/RTH/session gates after blocking
  lookups and again after backup/intent persistence, immediately before the
  broker call. Record an untransmitted rejected intent and use the existing
  definite-failure rollback, preserving uncertain-submission handling.
  Tests: test_v510_data_timing.py (shared with F07/F10), MKT and TRAIL paths,
  quote expiry during backup/intent writes, time-window transitions and controls.

F07 - Quote update followed by size callback
  Consume unobserved per-field price/quote evidence within its subscription
  generation even when a later size callback precedes evaluation. Do not count
  cached reads or size-only events as another SELL confirmation. Keep original
  selected-price receipt time for ATR observation timing.
  Tests: test_v510_data_timing.py, positive and negative price/size sequences,
  subscription changes, invalid books and distinct Stage-3 confirmations.

F08 - Stable realized P/L date and loss ordering
  Store the first persisted final completion timestamp and retain it through
  later fee/metadata upserts. Daily completed-cycle P/L/count and consecutive-loss
  ordering use that timestamp. Amounts can be corrected without moving the date.
  Tests: test_v510_strategy_risk.py (shared with F09), legacy migration,
  idempotence, partial/final completion, old model objects, late fees and guards.

F09 - ATR parameter edits
  Invalidate cached readiness after period/bar-duration edits before same-command
  entry evaluation. The enabled warmup guard requires matching calculation
  identity. Matching saved estimates and unchanged settings retain their rules.
  Tests: test_v510_strategy_risk.py, 11 cases across F08/F09.

F10 - Monotonic quote ages
  Production snapshots carry their monotonic observation time. Add elapsed
  monotonic time to measured field ages instead of rebuilding ages from rounded
  wall timestamps. Invalid monotonic observations fail closed. Retain compatibility
  fallback for older manually supplied snapshots without observation metadata.
  Tests: test_v510_data_timing.py, 19 cases across F06/F07/F10, including
  subsecond thresholds, wall-clock adjustments and delayed observations.

F11 - Signed and authoritative commissions
  Retain authoritative downward, zero and negative corrections. Stale default
  fees cannot erase known authoritative fees; complete execution evidence cannot
  create an artificial residual offset against a rebate. Apply validated ledger
  fees consistently to cycle totals, including recovery. Foreign-currency fees
  remain excluded under the existing no-FX and stop-after-cycle policy.
  Tests: test_v510_recovery_commissions.py, 24 cases across F02/F11, including
  legacy non-mapping raw JSON and a foreign recovery fee after a recorded fee.

GUI - Lock-button height
  Change only the button's vertical size policy to fill the existing status row.
  Width, text size, checked state and locking behavior are unchanged.
  Test: test_v510_lock_button_geometry.py, one native Qt test with 24 combinations
  of scale (100/150/200%), theme, width and lock state. Native execution is
  explicitly skipped here because PySide6 is unavailable.

There are 112 new regression test methods: 111 executed successfully here and
one native Qt method could not run because its class setup was skipped.

FINAL INTEGRATED RESULTS

Host: Linux, CPython 3.12.14, dependency-free/headless broker and Qt test doubles.
This host is not the supported application runtime; see unavailable gates below.

1. unittest
   IBKR_BOT_HEADLESS_SIGNALS=1 python -W error::ResourceWarning -m unittest \
       discover -s tests -p 'test_v5*.py' -v
   Result: Ran 372 tests in 14.041 seconds; OK (skipped=2).
   There were 371 successful methods and one skipped PowerShell method. The
   second skip is the native Qt class setup, outside unittest's testsRun count.
   All 111 executable new regression cases passed. No ResourceWarning failure.

2. Existing function-style tests
   Result: 1,408 passed, zero failed, using the local limited minipytest fallback.
   This runner executes the project's function cases with a small pytest-like
   surface. It is not pytest, does not supply pytest plugin/coverage semantics,
   and is not shipped as a replacement for the project's real release gate.
   The separate unittest run above covers the class-based v5 tests.
   Deliberate negative coverage-checker fixture diagnostics in this log are
   expected assertions, not a claimed real coverage measurement.

3. Deterministic CSV simulations
   python scripts/run_all_simulations.py
   Result: 58 validated scenarios passed across 54 price-path files.
   Covers entry, execution, endurance, lifecycle, numeric, protection, RTH,
   SELL execution, sizing and slippage scenarios.

4. Safety mutation smoke
   python scripts/run_mutation_smoke.py
   Result: 17/17 safety mutants killed; baseline probes passed.
   One probe's source-match target was updated for the authoritative commission
   condition; its behavioral assertion was retained. This is a bounded smoke
   gate, not an exhaustive mutation campaign.

5. Static/source checks
   In-memory AST parsing and compilation passed for 199 Python files on 3.12.
   git diff --check passed. Current release labels and relative documentation
   links were reviewed. These checks do not substitute for Ruff or Pyright.

INDEPENDENT REVIEW

The changes were divided by defect boundaries and cross-reviewed separately
from implementation. Review covered connection/GUI command identity, checkpoint
serialization, manual-close sequencing and restart handoffs, field update
consumption, monotonic timing, final BUY guards, completion-date migration,
ATR invalidation, recovery identity and signed fee reconciliation.

Review found a legacy execution raw-JSON compatibility issue and an aggregate
foreign-fee ordering edge; both were reproduced, fixed and given regressions
before the final integrated run. Four additional manual-close restart/full-fill
probes were retained as permanent tests. Review also corrected documentation
claims about reconnect behavior and archived release references.

The final changed paths had no unresolved concrete blocker identified by these
reviews and available tests. This is not a claim that all possible application
or broker defects have been excluded.

UNAVAILABLE TARGET GATES

Attempting installation of standard CPython 3.14 and the project's declared
packages returned HTTP 403 from their download sources. The project quality
command was attempted with --require-tools and failed for missing Ruff/Pyright;
it did not pass. Required runtime checks and dependency versions were not
relaxed to make this host appear qualified.

Not run or not available:
  - Supported CPython 3.14.x execution.
  - Real pytest, branch coverage and full callable-entry coverage gates.
  - Ruff and Pyright.
  - Native Windows/PowerShell launch, shutdown and build behavior.
  - Native PySide6 rendering, actual high-DPI geometry and packaged GUI behavior.
  - PyInstaller executable generation.
  - Live or paper IBKR integration with actual callback timing and fills.

The delivered Windows run_all_tests.bat remains the complete declared gate.
The build script's -RunTests option is narrower and does not replace that gate.
Native geometry tests will execute when real PySide6 is installed.

DATABASE AND UPGRADE NOTES

The sole schema addition is nullable cycles.completed_at TEXT, using the
existing additive migration. It records the first application-persisted final
completion in UTC, not the first partial SELL time or reconstructed broker time.
An offline fill first completed through recovery on a later day belongs to that
application-completion day. Existing completed rows are backfilled once from
current updated_at. Dates already moved by an older version cannot be recovered
reliably from this field. No existing fills, quantities, order identities, ATR
checkpoints or settings are reset.

Retain a consistent application backup and the working installation. Close the
instance before replacing source or executable files. Each bot instance keeps
its own database, settings and client ID. Use the full source package, or apply
the supplied patch/changed files only to the exact reviewed final 5.0.0 baseline.
Source files alone do not update a previously built executable.

Before qualifying a Windows build for unattended use, run run_all_tests.bat on
standard CPython 3.14, build it, and exercise the changed workflows in an isolated
paper setup. The current TEST_PLAN.md includes the requested boundary cases.
No additional production audit logs are needed to implement the eleven known
reproductions. To close the outstanding platform validation, the Windows full
suite output, quality/build logs and native/paper check results are needed.
If a new runtime discrepancy occurs, supply that instance's audit/log bundle
and exact build identification; this report does not infer live validation.

The excluded shutdown-queue observation and Linux-only lock reproduction from
the review were not added to the requested eleven-defect scope. No broad worker,
database, GUI or strategy architecture refactor was introduced.

Release details: docs/V5_1_0_TARGETED_TRADING_FIXES.md
Historical 5.0.0 report: docs/legacy/V5_0_0_IMPLEMENTATION_TEST_REPORT.txt
