BouncyBot v5.2.0
Targeted storage performance implementation and verification report
25 September 2026

DELIVERY AND SCOPE

This source release implements only the two authorized runtime changes:
  1. Add a partial index for manual-handling acknowledgement lookups.
  2. Omit the redundant backup of the disposable restore-validation candidate.

Baseline: delivered v5.1.0, local commit
02d502369b532a7f40340e3ada330ee541959ee5.
The baseline remains in a separate unchanged checkout. The 5.1 report and
release note are retained under docs/legacy/.

Only app/storage.py changes runtime behavior. app/gui.py changes three version
labels. Other changes are version/build metadata, corresponding current-version
test assertions, documentation and two new regression test modules.

No controller, strategy, market-data adapter, order model, ATR, watchdog, timer,
connection, order transmission or reconciliation logic was edited. Queries and
their filtering/ordering remain byte-for-byte unchanged. Order/fill persistence,
SQLite durability, backup triggers and default retention of 50 are unchanged.
Duplicate-write suppression, warning coalescing, slower display refreshes and a
minimum backup interval are NOT implemented in this release. Dependencies and
the standard GIL-enabled CPython 3.14.x requirement are unchanged.

This is a source release with Windows build scripts, not a prebuilt Windows
executable. Native platform qualification is outstanding as detailed below.

IMPLEMENTATION

1. Manual-marker partial index

The existing additive schema-opening path now contains:

  CREATE INDEX IF NOT EXISTS idx_decision_events_manually_handled_cycle
      ON decision_events(cycle_id) WHERE event_type = 'MANUALLY_HANDLED';

Both affected safety/position subqueries already use that exact predicate.
There is no query rewrite or cached authorization. Only matching marker rows
belong to the index; ordinary decision events do not create index entries.
Creation is a one-time table scan/index write when missing. No table or column
is added. Existing earlier-version migrations still run as before.

2. Disposable restore-candidate backup

BotStorage's new private keyword-only _backup_before_schema option defaults to
True. It is passed as False only when opening the internally created temporary
restore_candidate.sqlite. Normal database opening retains the pre-schema backup.
The option skips only the redundant backup, not schema/migration execution.

A validated full backup now makes two full SQLite copies instead of three:
  - real consistent backup;
  - consistent temporary restore candidate.

The candidate still includes committed WAL contents, exercises additive
migrations, and passes the same integrity/schema/foreign-key validation. Failure
reporting, cleanup, rotation and audit export remain. No live database or supplied
backup is migrated by candidate validation. The optimization saves one full
DB-sized temporary copy per backup; it is not a periodic-write reduction.

FOCUSED REGRESSION COVERAGE

68 new regression cases are provided:

  tests/test_v520_manual_marker_index.py: 57 parameterized cases.
  Fresh and legacy schemas; idempotence; all application-table preservation;
  ordered complete unresolved/position query results; every cycle stage;
  BUY/protective/final SELL roles; terminal, working, unknown, empty and null
  statuses; missing references; partial/protective fills; exact/legacy contracts;
  manual marker and legacy acknowledgement exclusions; insert/delete visibility;
  rollback; duplicate/null-cycle markers; partial-index contents; actual SQL
  query planner selection; queries issue no data-changing statements.

  tests/test_v520_backup_validation.py: 11 unittest cases.
  Actual SQLite copy counts; all table rows and persisted identities/timestamps;
  ordinary startup pre-schema backup, including migration failure; legacy
  migrations on the disposable copy only; committed WAL with a pinned reader;
  source/candidate copy failures; migration and post-migration integrity failure;
  invalid source rejection; temporary cleanup; previous recovery points; rotation;
  audit export; literal filenames containing spaces and URI metacharacters.

All 68 cases passed on both available real SQLite implementations:
  Primary: CPython 3.12.14 / SQLite 3.53.1, Linux.
  Secondary: CPython 3.12.3 / SQLite 3.45.1, Linux.

The 11 backup cases ran through standard unittest with ResourceWarning treated
as an error. The 57 function-style cases ran through the explicitly limited
workspace minipytest fallback, NOT actual pytest. That runner is not shipped as
an application dependency or a substitute for the Windows release gate.

Regression sensitivity was also checked against unchanged 5.1 source:
  - the index tests produced 53 passes and four expected missing-index/plan
    failures, while all unchanged safety-semantic cases passed;
  - the audit-export copy-count test failed as expected with 3 copies versus 2.
These expected old-version failures demonstrate that the tests detect the changes.

BROADER BEHAVIOR VALIDATION

Existing v5 unittest suite:
  372 tests recorded, OK (skipped=2), with ResourceWarning as error.
  The output represents 371 successful methods, one skipped PowerShell method,
  and a skipped native-Qt class setup outside unittest's testsRun count.
  The 11 new backup cases were run separately and all passed.

Function-style repository tests:
  Final run: 1,465 passed, zero failed (including the 57 new index cases).
  An initial run caught the still-old report version; after replacing the report,
  the complete function-style suite passed. See validation/final_function_tests.log.
  This is the limited fallback runner, not actual pytest or coverage execution.
  Deliberate failing coverage-checker fixture diagnostics are expected assertions;
  they do not measure actual application coverage.

Deterministic CSV simulations:
  58 validated scenarios passed across 54 price-path files, covering entry,
  execution, endurance, lifecycle, numeric, protection, RTH, sizing and slippage.

Safety mutation smoke:
  17/17 mutants killed; baseline probes passed. Mutation targets were not edited.
  This remains a bounded smoke check, not exhaustive mutation coverage.

Static and source-scope checks:
  All 201 Python files parsed and compiled on Python 3.12. All local links in
  100 Markdown files resolved, and git diff --check passed. Byte comparisons
  confirmed unchanged runtime modules and dependencies; GUI/build/runtime-guard
  edits are version labels only. Existing tests differ only in current-release
  labels and note paths. These checks do not replace Ruff or Pyright.

SUPPLIED DATABASE AND BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY

A fresh extraction of the supplied 25 September audit ZIP was used only in
private test directories. No live database or original uploaded file was opened
for mutation. The original ZIP hash was verified unchanged after the checks.

The copy contained 42 cycles, 100,075 decision events, 55,667 events, 60 orders,
84 executions, 5,333 broker events and six app-setting rows.

Actual 5.1 schema opening followed by actual 5.2 opening verified:
  - all seven application tables retained identical logical row contents;
  - full ordered unresolved results and exact/legacy position payloads matched;
  - the ordinary startup backup existed BEFORE the new index was added;
  - integrity and foreign-key checks passed;
  - actual validated backups preserved every application row;
  - backup API instrumentation observed exactly 3 copies for 5.1 and 2 for 5.2;
  - unchanged 5.1 storage reopened the indexed database and retained identical
    application rows and query results.

PERFORMANCE RECHECK OF THE IMPLEMENTED SOURCE

The same isolated read-cache profiler was rerun against the actual 5.1 and 5.2
source, using private consistent copies of the fresh database. Two warmups and
11 measured calls; medians are process CPU milliseconds. Schema initialization,
broker startup and native GUI were excluded from these read timings.

Read path                                      5.1.0       5.2.0
App-owned unsold-position lookup               33.085       0.262
Unresolved-cycle lookup                         1.651       0.485
Recorded Stage-3 display database refresh       2.798       1.313
Constructed Stage-1 refresh, hard limits off    37.486       1.520

The fresh recorded instance was in Stage 3. Its display refresh does NOT use the
expensive Stage-1 position lookup. These measurements are not a whole-process
CPU percentage, live Windows speedup, disk-flush count or SSD-wear measurement.
Read profiling left both main database file hashes unchanged. SQL planner checks
confirmed the new partial index is used. Copy-count savings are event-driven;
no measured daily physical disk-write reduction is claimed.

INDEPENDENT REVIEW

A reviewer separately checked the storage diff and both new test modules.
No concrete correctness issue was identified in the final runtime changes.
Review confirmed exact predicate compatibility, unchanged query ordering,
default-on real startup backups, copy-only migration, WAL consistency, unchanged
validation/failure/rotation paths, and no conflicting internal constructor mocks
or schema-method overrides. The suggested 5.1 reopen compatibility check was
performed on the private supplied-data copy and passed.

UNAVAILABLE TARGET GATES

This environment has no standard CPython 3.14, actual pytest, Coverage.py, Ruff,
Pyright, PySide6, ib_async or PyInstaller installation. The earlier package-source
attempts returned HTTP 403, and the available toolchain/cache search found no
usable distributions. Requirements and runtime guards were not weakened.

The unchanged required quality command was actually attempted:
  python scripts/run_quality_checks.py --require-tools
It exited 1 because Ruff and Pyright were missing. This is NOT a passed gate.
The unchanged runtime guard rejected Python 3.12 as intended.

Outstanding checks:
  - actual Python 3.14 pytest run, branch coverage and callable-entry gate;
  - Ruff and Pyright;
  - native Windows/PowerShell and PyInstaller build;
  - native Qt, packaged application and live/paper IBKR validation.

No broker connection or trading action was made. The automated behavior suite
uses broker/GUI test doubles where appropriate. Passing the offline checks does
not establish absence of every possible behavior or platform regression.

RELEASE AND UPGRADE

The source ZIP contains the complete tracked 5.2.0 tree. Updated_Files.zip contains
replacement/additional files, the exact 5.1-to-5.2 patch, an explicit deletion
list for the archived note, before/after hashes and validation evidence.

Keep a consistent database backup and the working installation. Close each
instance before replacing its files, and retain its own DB, client settings and
captures. Source replacement does not update an existing executable. Run
run_all_tests.bat on standard CPython 3.14 in Windows, then build from the new
source. The build script's narrower -RunTests option does not replace the full
run_all_tests.bat gate. Supply its test/quality/build logs to close the outstanding
native checks before treating a Windows build as qualified for unattended use.

Release note: docs/V5_2_0_STORAGE_PERFORMANCE.md
Prior report: docs/legacy/V5_1_0_IMPLEMENTATION_TEST_REPORT.txt
