BouncyBot v5.6.0 - Implementation and verification report
Date: 2026-10-04
Scope: targeted corrections for G01-G15, plus six support-address updates
Baseline: exact previously delivered 5.5.1 source ZIP
Baseline source ZIP SHA256:
2bc4eb868ff63bddeda022580e254c42b939500bd4410fa9a80470a135bf2028

DELIVERED CHANGES

G01 - Current master/per-field ATR checkbox selections own editable inputs.
      An older queued snapshot cannot replace a newly entered manual value
      after the operator disables adaptation. Startup hydration and suppression
      of autosave during programmatic updates remain intact.
G02 - Reconciliation market SELL shares Stop's potential-loss confirmation,
      defaulting to Cancel. After the modal, it rechecks probe freshness, cycle
      identity/order-fill signature, conId and persisted unsold quantity before
      calling the existing StopAction workflow. Worker guards still apply.
G03 - Reconciliation compares the full app-owned unsold quantity with broker
      holdings using the existing 1e-9 tolerance. Unknown/stale positions are
      labelled unavailable for verification, not consistent.
G04 - Nonterminal partial fills remain working orders in Reconciliation.
      Terminal statuses determine whether the remainder is cancellable.
G05 - Confirmed contract identity drives ribbon/graph display. A retained cycle
      from another instrument cannot supply old graph prices/levels or profit
      triggers for the newly confirmed contract.
G06 - Trailing graph estimates track observed prices per broker order, retain
      extrema independently of display-buffer pruning and reset on replacement.
      Same-second observations are handled explicitly. Orders already active
      at startup, and ambiguous submission-time evidence, show an unavailable
      estimate instead of reconstructing a stop from pre-order cycle prices.
      The submitted initial stop remains visible; estimates are not broker stops.
G07 - Historical flowchart selection follows persisted cycle ID after history
      changes. If that cycle disappears from the selected results, selection
      deliberately returns to the current strategy.
G08 - Historical diagrams reconstruct saved settings and do not inherit today's
      draft. Missing fields use fixed display defaults, disclosed in the
      explanation/tooltip. Actual older rows lack auto_repeat, sec_type and tif;
      the app does not claim their original values were recovered.
G09 - Inactive next-cycle manual protective percentages are editable consistently
      with other inputs. Active Stage 3/4, manual-review, ATR and operator locks
      remain in force. Editing an inactive draft does not alter its retained cycle.
G10 - CSV applies the same ticker/date/outcome/ATR/paper-live predicates as history
      and summary, without a row cap. Existing CSV columns and legacy exact-ticker
      storage calls remain supported. Export failures still show an operator error.
G11 - A cancelled/unfilled protective reference is not classified as an exit.
      Badges and SQL use protective filled quantity or an actually filled SELL
      carrying the protective executing reference; P/L calculations are unchanged.
G12 - Completion markers use aggregate fill price with the completion timestamp.
      If only individual execution evidence exists, its own price and timestamp
      stay paired. Stored executions are not rewritten.
G13 - Audit Summary keeps legitimate zero percentages and zero P/L instead of
      discarding them through boolean fallback expressions.
G14 - Audit Summary derives BUY type from matching stored order evidence and
      holding duration from valid fill timestamps. Ambiguous/missing order
      identity and invalid/reversed times remain explicitly unavailable.
G15 - History rows and flowchart choices refresh with completed-history changes
      on the existing database cadence. The existing summary metadata query is
      reused. An in-memory completed-write revision catches same-second late
      commissions without adding queries or persistent writes to the write path.
      Unchanged revisions do not reload rows. Failed filter/read requests retry;
      different filters with equal counts/timestamps cannot retain the old rows.

About > Info > Thank me and README now contain exactly the supplied ADA, ETH,
NIGHT, SOL, XRP and ZEC strings. ADA was already the supplied value; ETH/NIGHT/SOL
were replaced; XRP/ZEC were added. All six GUI fields and README entries are
checked against the literal user-provided values. No transfer or ownership check
was made or is implied.

SCOPE AND REVIEW

Runtime edits are limited to app/gui.py, app/controller.py and app/storage.py.
Controller changes are reporting request/result handling and CSV filters.
Storage changes are reporting predicates/export and memory-only cache/revision
invalidation after the existing completed-cycle upsert. Its SQL statement,
transaction and disk-write behavior are unchanged.

Every other app module, main.py and requirements.txt is byte-identical to 5.5.1.
The strategy engine, broker adapter, order submission/cancellation sequencing,
RTH/freshness guards, schema, backup policy and cadence intervals are unchanged.
All 27 tracked Images files are unchanged. Runtime remains standard GIL-enabled
CPython 3.14.x. Version/build metadata and current release assertions are updated.

Independent reviewers checked the ATR/reconciliation changes, historical/audit
changes and reporting changes. Review found and corrected two graph edge cases:
same-second prices and reused references with different broker order IDs.
It also found the failed-filter equal-revision retry case and the same-second
commission cache issue; both now have explicit regression coverage.

A transaction-rollback probe preserved committed P/L and database bytes. Five
forced reporting cadences caused one conservative row refresh after rollback,
then reused it; no DML/DDL statement ran during those reporting cadences. A
completed-cycle write for another ticker can conservatively refresh a filtered
view once. Unchanged periodic snapshots do not repeatedly reload full history.

SUPPLIED AUDIT REPLAY

All 10 completed cycles from the three supplied databases were checked read-only.
BUY and FINAL SELL marker prices match persisted aggregate fills and corresponding
fill timestamps. PURR cycle 2 now displays FINAL SELL 13.691500630517025 instead of
the first partial's 13.71. TDIV cycle 1 Summary now displays TRAIL and 1439.83 min.
Changing today's ATR/repeat/currency settings leaves reconstructed history fixed.
No user database, actual account identifier or audit bundle is in the archives.

EXECUTED VERIFICATION

Host: Linux, CPython 3.12.14, SQLite 3.53.1. No live broker connection or order.

- 85 new unittest methods: ATR 10, Reconciliation 18, graph 26, historical/audit
  16, history reporting/support addresses 15. All passed.
- All 42 unittest modules: 571 successful methods, no failure/error. Runner:
  Ran 576 tests, OK (skipped=7). Five skipped methods are part of the 576;
  two additional native-Qt class-setup skips are listed separately by unittest.
  ResourceWarning was treated as an error. Skips need native Qt or PowerShell.
- 1479 function cases passed, no failure/collection error, using the explicitly
  limited dependency-free fallback runner. This is NOT actual pytest and does
  not establish coverage. Six focused fallback-runner self-tests also passed.
- The first broad function run found an obsolete export test-double signature
  and the not-yet-updated root report version. The double now exercises the
  filtered API while retaining its permission-error assertion; the report now
  identifies 5.6.0. The complete function suite passed after those corrections.
- The repository's own mutation gate passed: 17/17 safety mutants killed.
- The repository's simulation gate passed: 58 scenarios across 54 CSV files.
- All 214 Python files compiled. git diff --check passed.
- 313 local links across 28 documents were checked; none missing.
- Both source and update ZIPs pass CRC/content verification. Applying the patch
  or the documented changed-file overlay to the exact 5.5.1 baseline reproduces
  every 5.6.0 source file. Detailed hashes/evidence are in the update archive.

VALIDATION LIMITS

Renewed attempts to install Python 3.14 and the exact project requirements were
blocked by HTTP 403. Actual pytest/coverage, Ruff, Pyright, PySide6, ib_async and
PyInstaller are unavailable. No requirement was relaxed and no global package
was changed. The required runtime check and
  python scripts/run_quality_checks.py --require-tools
were attempted and failed due to the interpreter/missing tools. They did not pass.

This host did not verify native Windows/Qt rendering, high-DPI scaling, real Qt
event-loop behavior, Python 3.14 execution, actual pytest/branch/callable coverage,
Windows packaging, or live IB Gateway behavior. Headless method tests and the
fallback runner are not substitutes for these platform gates. No fresh coverage
percentage or prebuilt Windows executable is supplied. Run run_all_tests.bat and
the documented Windows build in the required target environment.

RELEASE CONTENTS

IBKR_Trading_Bot_5.6.0_Source.zip - complete source project.
IBKR_Trading_Bot_5.6.0_Release_files.zip - exact-baseline changed files, patch,
  removal/update instructions, hashes and verification evidence.
BouncyBot_5.5.1_to_5.6.0.patch - alternative exact-baseline update.
BouncyBot_5.6.0_Implementation_Test_Report.txt - this report.
BouncyBot_5.6.0_GUI_Fixes.txt - the fifteen-finding correction map and boundaries.

The original 5.5.1 GUI review is retained with a resolution link. Its release note
and implementation report are archived; the old implementation report is
byte-for-byte preserved. The changelog has one consolidated 5.6.0 entry.

Close the instance before replacing source. Retain its own database/settings/
client ID/captures/backups and rebuild any packaged executable. The changed-file
archive targets exactly 5.5.1; use complete source if your baseline differs.
